#734. Prosperity. -- N.  prosperity, welfare, well-being; affluence
&c. (wealth) 803; success &c. 731; thrift, roaring trade; good fortune,
smiles of fortune; blessings, godsend.
     luck; good luck, run of luck; sunshine; fair weather, fair wind; palmy
days, bright days, halcyon days; piping times, tide, flood, high tide.
     Saturnia regna[Lat], Saturnian age; golden time, golden age; bed of
roses, fat city [coll.]; fat of the land, milk and honey, loaves and
fishes.
     made man, lucky dog, enfant gate[Fr], spoiled child of fortune.
     upstart, parvenu, skipjack[obs3], mushroom.
     V. prosper, thrive, flourish; be prosperous &c adj.; drive a roaring
trade, do a booming business; go on well, go on smoothly, go on swimmingly;
sail before the wind, swim with the tide; run smooth, run smoothly, run on
all fours.
     rise in the world, get on in the world; work one's way, make one's
way; look up; lift one's head, raise one's head, make one's fortune,
feather one's nest, make one's pile.
     flower, blow, blossom, bloom, fructify, bear fruit, fatten.
     keep oneself afloat; keep one's head above water, hold one's head
above water; land on one's feet, light on one's  feet, light on one's legs,
fall on one's legs, fall on one's feet; drop into a good thing; bear a
charmed life; bask in the sunshine; have a good time of it, have a fine
time of it; have a run  of luck; have the good fortune &c. n. to; take a
favorable turn; live on the fat of the land, live off the fat of the land,
live in clover.
     Adj. prosperous; thriving &c. v.; in a fair way, buoyant; well off,
well to do, well to do in the world; set up, at one's ease; rich &c. 803;
in good case; in full, in high feather; fortunate, lucky, in luck; born
with a silver spoon in one's mouth, born under a lucky star; on the sunny
side of the hedge.
     auspicious, propitious, providential.
     palmy, halcyon; agreeable &c. 829; couleur de rose[Fr].
     Adv. prosperously &c. adj.; swimmingly; as good luck would have it;
beyond all hope.
     Phr. one's star in the ascendant, all for the best, one's course runs
smooth.
     chacun est l'artisan de sa fortune[Fr]; donec eris felix multos
numerabis amicos [Lat][Ovid]; felicitas multos habet amicos[Lat]; felix se
nescit amari [Lat][Lucan]; 'good luck go with thee' [Henry V]; nulli est
homini perpetuum bonum [Lat][Plautus].

     #735. Adversity. -- N. adversity, evil &c. 619; failure &c. 732; bad
luck, ill luck, evil luck, adverse luck, hard fortune, hard hap, hard luck,
hard lot; frowns of fortune; evil dispensation, evil star, evil genius|;
vicissitudes of life, ups and downs of life, broken fortunes; hard case,
hard lines, hard life; sea of troubles; peck of troubles; hell upon earth;
slough of despond.
     trouble, hardship, curse, blight, blast, load, pressure.
     pressure of the times, iron age, evil day, time out of joint; hard
times, bad times, sad times; rainy day, cloud, dark cloud, gathering
clouds, ill wind; visitation, infliction; affliction &c. (painfulness) 830;
bitter pill; care, trial; the sport of fortune.
     mishap, mischance, misadventure, misfortune; disaster, calamity,
catastrophe; accident, casualty, cross, reverse, check, contretemps, rub;
backset[obs3], comedown, setback [U.S.].
     losing game; falling &c. v.; fall, downfall; ruination, ruinousness;
undoing; extremity; ruin &c. (destruction) 162.
     V. be ill off &c. adj.; go hard with; fall on evil, fall on evil days;
go on ill; not prosper &c. 734.
     go downhill, go to rack and ruin &c. (destruction) 162, go to the
dogs; fall, fall from one's high estate; decay, sink, decline, go down in
the world; have seen better days; bring down one's gray hairs with sorrow
to the grave; come to grief; be all over, be up with; bring a wasp's nest
about one's ears, bring a hornet's nest about one's ears.
     Adj. unfortunate, unblest[obs3], unhappy, unlucky; improsperous[obs3],
unprosperous; hoodooed [U.S.]; luckless, hapless; out of luck; in trouble,
in a bad way, in an evil plight; under a cloud; clouded; ill off, badly
off; in adverse circumstances; poor &c. 804; behindhand, down in the world,
decayed, undone; on the road to ruin, on its last legs, on the wane; in
one's utmost need.
     planet-struck, devoted; born under an evil star, born with a wooden
ladle in one's mouth; ill-fated, ill-starred, ill-omened.
     adverse, untoward; disastrous, calamitous, ruinous, dire, deplorable.

     #736.  Mediocrity. --  N.  moderate circumstances, average
circumstances; respectability; middle classes; mediocrity; golden mean &c.
(mid-course) 628, (moderation) 174.
     V. jog on; go fairly, go quietly, go peaceably, go tolerably, go
respectably, get on fairly, get on quietly, get on peaceably, get on
tolerably, get on respectably.

