     #745. Master.-- N. master, padrone; lord, lord paramount; commander,
commandant; captain; chief, chieftain; sirdar[obs3], sachem, sheik, head,
senior, governor, ruler, dictator; leader &c. (director) 694; boss,
cockarouse[obs3], sagamore[ISA:chief@algonquin], werowance[obs3].
     lord of the ascendant; cock of the walk, cock of the roost; gray mare;
mistress.
     potentate; liege, liege lord; suzerain, sovereign, monarch, autocrat,
despot, tyrant, oligarch.
     crowned head, emperor, king, anointed king, majesty, imperator[Lat],
protector, president, stadholder[obs3], judge.
     ceasar, kaiser, czar, tsar, sultan, soldan|, grand Turk, caliph,
imaum[obs3], shah, padishah[obs3], sophi[obs3], mogul, great mogul, khan,
lama, tycoon, mikado, tenno[Jap], inca, cazique[obs3]; voivode[obs3];
landamman[obs3]; seyyid[obs3]; Abuna[obs3], cacique[obs3], czarowitz[obs3],
grand seignior.
     prince, duke &c. (nobility) 875; archduke, doge, elector; seignior;
marland[obs3], margrave; rajah, emir, wali, sheik nizam[obs3], nawab.
     empress, queen, sultana, czarina, princess, infanta, duchess,
margravine[obs3]; czarevna[obs3], czarita[obs3]; maharani, rani,
rectrix[obs3].
     regent, viceroy, exarch[obs3], palatine, khedive, hospodar[obs3],
beglerbeg[obs3], three-tailed bashaw[obs3], pasha, bashaw[obs3], bey, beg,
dey[obs3], scherif[obs3], tetrarch, satrap, mandarin, subahdar[obs3],
nabob, maharajah; burgrave[obs3]; laird &c. (proprietor) 779; collector,
commissioner, deputy commissioner, woon[obs3].
     the authorities, the powers that be, the government; staff, etat
major[Fr], aga[obs3], official, man in office, person in authority;
sircar[obs3], sirkar[obs3], Sublime Porte.
     [Military authorities] marshal, field marshal, marechal[obs3];
general, generalissimo; commander in chief, seraskier[obs3], hetman[obs3];
lieutenant general, major general; colonel, lieutenant colonel, major,
captain, centurion, skipper, lieutenant, first lieutenant, second
lieutenant, sublieutenant, officer, staff officer, aide-de-camp, brigadier,
brigade major, adjutant, jemidar[obs3], ensign, cornet, cadet, subaltern,
noncommissioned officer, warrant officer; sergeant, sergeant major; color
sergeant; corporal, corporal major; lance corporal, acting corporal; drum
major; captain general, dizdar[obs3], knight marshal, naik[obs3],
pendragon.
     [Civil authorities] mayor, mayoralty; prefect, chancellor, archon,
provost, magistrate, syndic; alcalde[obs3], alcaid[obs3]; burgomaster,
corregidor[obs3], seneschal, alderman, councilman, committeeman,
councilwoman, warden, constable, portreeve[obs3]; lord mayor; officer &c.
(executive) 965; dewan[obs3], fonctionnaire[Fr].
     [Naval authorities] admiral, admiralty; rear admiral, vice admiral,
port admiral; commodore, captain, commander, lieutenant, ensign, skipper,
mate, master, officer of the day, OD; navarch[obs3].
     Phr. da locum melioribus[Lat]; der Furst ist der erste Diener seines
Staats [German: the prince is the first servant of his state]; "lord of thy
presence and no land beside" [King John].

     #746. Servant.-- N. subject, liegeman[obs3]; servant, retainer,
follower, henchman, servitor, domestic, menial, help, lady help, employe,
attache; official.
     retinue, suite, cortege, staff, court.
     attendant, squire, usher, page, donzel[obs3], footboy[obs3]; train
bearer, cup bearer; waiter, lapster[obs3], butler, livery servant, lackey,
footman, flunky, flunkey, valet, valet de chambre[Fr]; equerry, groom;
jockey, hostler, ostler[obs3], tiger, orderly, messenger, cad,
gillie[obs3], herdsman, swineherd; barkeeper, bartender; bell boy, boots,
boy, counterjumper[obs3]; khansamah[obs3], khansaman[obs3];
khitmutgar[obs3]; yardman.
     bailiff, castellan[obs3], seneschal, chamberlain, major-domo[obs3],
groom of the chambers.
     secretary; under secretary, assistant secretary; clerk; subsidiary;
agent &c. 758; subaltern; underling, understrapper; man.
     maid, maidservant; handmaid; confidente[Fr], lady's maid, abigail,
soubrette; amah[obs3], biddy, nurse, bonne[Fr], ayah[obs3]; nursemaid,
nursery maid, house maid, parlor maid, waiting maid, chamber maid, kitchen
maid, scullery maid; femme de chambre[Fr], femme fille[Fr];
camarista[obs3]; chef de cuisine,cordon bleu[Fr], cook, scullion,
Cinderella; potwalloper[obs3]; maid of all work, servant of all work;
laundress, bedmaker[obs3]; journeyman, charwoman &c. (worker) 690; bearer,
chokra[obs3], gyp [Cambridge], hamal[obs3], scout [Oxford].
     serf, vassal, slave, negro, helot; bondsman, bondswoman[obs3];
bondslave[obs3]; ame damnee[Fr], odalisque, ryot[obs3], adscriptus
gleboe[Lat]; villian[obs3], villein; beadsman[obs3], bedesman[obs3];
sizar[obs3]; pensioner, pensionary[obs3]; client; dependant, dependent;
hanger on, satellite; parasite &c. (servility) 886; led captain;
protege[Fr], ward, hireling, mercenary, puppet, tool, creature.
     badge of slavery; bonds &c. 752.
     V. serve; wait upon, attend upon, dance attendance upon, pin oneself
upon; squire, tend, hang on the sleeve of; chore [U.S.].
     Adj. in the train of; in one's pay, in one's employ; at one's call &c.
(obedient) 743; in bonds.


